Did you know that you can write code and text together?
Literate programming combines them into one living story.
Coined by Donald Knuth, the idea is to weave your narrative and your code into a single document.
No more copy-pasting charts into Word.
We love Quarto for this.
It's an open-source system that lets you combine languages like Python, R, or Julia
with simple markdown text.
We write our narrative in plain markdown,
immediately followed by the code that actually performs our analysis.
And at the top, we can define our metadata, like how we want the final product to look.
When you hit render, Quarto runs the code and weaves everything together
into a professional, reproducible report that's ready to share.
From this same source file, I can hide the code if I just want the results,
or I can publish to different formats like PDF, Word, or even a full website.
Have you tried Quarto? Let us know.
Subscribe for more free and open-source data science content.